II.
My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee, so that thou
incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding, yea, if thou cryest
after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding, if thou seekest her as
silver and searchest for her as for hid treasures, then shalt thou understand the fear of the
Lord, and find the knowledge of God.
For the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding, he layeth
for the righteous, he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly, he keepeth the paths of
judgment and preserveth the way of his saints.
Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity, yea, every good path.
When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul, discretion
shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee, to deliver thee from the way of the
evil man, from the man that speaketh foward things, who leave the paths of uprightness
to walk in the ways of darkness, who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the fowardness
of the wicked, whose ways are crooked, and they foward in their paths, to deliver thee
from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words, which forsaketh
the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God, for her house inclineth
unto death, and her paths unto the dead, none that go unto her return again, neither take
they hold of the paths of life, that thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the
paths of the righteous, for the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain
in it, but the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be
rooted out of it.